WebView2 source map handling (#3384)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md

Reviewer: @mikosg - You can try to apply some of the review comments/changes.  Else later I can try.  You can handle the more technical changes.  I plan to do a writer pass and push commits later, date TBD.

This version of my comment is entered via Files Changed instead of directly on main page of PR.  It's a comment about general logistics - so either way makes sense.   
* Comment via Files Changed page has conversation threading and a tracking UI.
* Comment via main page of PR is more permanent.

Reviewer: temp comment: How to enter a multi-line Suggested Change comment:
https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#adding-comments-to-a-pull-request
@dhveerap, @sivMSFT 

How to nav to Docs at GH site: 
1. Go to GitHub home page.
2. At bottom middle of page, click **Docs** link, then scroll down to **Getting started** section.  Then:
3. To learn UI for entering PR Comment: Click **About pull requests**, then in TOC on left, scroll down to **Review changes** > **Comment on a PR**. 
https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request
4. To learn Markdown tagging: Click **Basic writing and formatting syntax**.
https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

Reviewer: global: 
* Make sure WebResourceRequested sections don't say "virtual host name mapping".
* Make sure "virtual host name mapping" sections don't say "WebResourceRequested".

orig [Comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files/a7be92ff869011a63417e5f47380407a284d213d#r1962833201) from Akhila

Reviewer: push commit that fixes all other Comments, then review rendered sections of PR to do this global check.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes.  This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with virtual host name mapping

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, such as:
* Transpiled JavaScript, such as TypeScript or minified JavaScript.
* Compiled CSS, such as SASS or SCSS.

WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using virtual host name mapping.  

For example, suppose WebView2 loads `main.js` via virtual host name mapping.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, `main.js.map` will not be loaded automatically.

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, use one of the following approaches:

* Generate inline source maps during compilation of your content.  Inline source maps are embedded within the corresponding compiled file.

> * Or, use `WebResourceRequested` event instead,<!-- todo: instead of what? virtual host name mapping? if so, contradicts "To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping" --> and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler.  Use this approach only if your build system doesn't support inline source maps.

Reviewer: Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead of what?  virtual host name mapping?  if so, contradicts "To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping".  The list paragraphs might need logical re-flow.
@dhveerap @mikosg

Reviewer: result:
```
###### Source maps with virtual host name mapping

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, such as:
* Transpiled JavaScript, such as TypeScript or minified JavaScript.
* Compiled CSS, such as SASS or SCSS.

WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using virtual host name mapping.  

For example, suppose WebView2 loads `main.js` via virtual host name mapping.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, `main.js.map` will not be loaded automatically.

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, generate inline source maps during compilation of your content.  Inline source maps are embedded within the corresponding compiled file.
```
changed from lead-in "To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping" followed by two items (where 2nd item contradicts lead-in, b/c says use WebResourceRequested instead of v.h.n.m.) to a single sentence, no list; no mention of W.R.R. event.
@mikosg @dhveerap

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with virtual host name mapping

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content like transpiled JavaScript (e.g. TypeScript, minified JavaScript) or CSS (e.g. SASS, SCSS). WebView2 does not load source maps referenced by content which was loaded using virtual host name mapping. Consider the following example. WebView2 loads JavaScript file `main.js` via virtual host name mapping. If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically nor any `WebResourceRequested` event handler will be called to load it.

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, choose one of the following approaches:
- Generate inline source maps during compilation of your content. Inline source maps are embedded to the corresponding compiled file.

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inlining source maps.

Reviewer 2: inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler -- Can we explain with an example here?

Reviewer: Rendered:
* **Using local content in WebView2 apps** > **Source maps with virtual host name mapping**
   * `/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md`
   * Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content?branch=pr-en-us-3384#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping
   * External preview: https://github.com/mikosg/edge-developer/blob/source_maps/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping
   * Planned live: https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping
   * New section.

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inlining source maps.

Reviewer 2: `content build system` -> `build system`
Do we need content to be added?

Reviewer 2: (t/o)

Reviewer: Outdated, closing.  [Fresh](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files#r1964623075)

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inlining source maps.

Reviewer 2: `inlining source maps` -> `inline source maps`

Reviewer 2: (t/o)

Reviewer: I clicked in Reply text box below @dhveerap comment, then clicked **Add a suggestion** ([+/-]), then change inlining to inline:
```suggestion
- Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.
```
Already fixed locally; I'll close this comment thread now.

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inlining source maps.

Reviewer: Outdated, closing.  [Fresh](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files#r1964632695)

current state: locally, i reformatted this section, kept w.r.r but added hidden todo cmt, will push

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Additional web resources

> Local content that's loaded via virtual host name mapping has an HTTP or HTTPS URL which supports relative URL resolution. This means that the loaded document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files which are also served via virtual host name mapping, except [source maps](#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping).

Reviewer: reformat link per repo convention, ", below"; link text exact same as heading.
```suggestion
Local content that's loaded via virtual host name mapping has an HTTP or HTTPS URL which supports relative URL resolution. This means that the loaded document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files which are also served via virtual host name mapping, except source maps; see [Source maps with virtual host name mapping](#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping), below.
```
or ", above".

Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with virtual host name mapping

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content like transpiled JavaScript (e.g. TypeScript, minified JavaScript) or CSS (e.g. SASS, SCSS). WebView2 does not load source maps referenced by content which was loaded using virtual host name mapping. Consider the following example. WebView2 loads JavaScript file `main.js` via virtual host name mapping. If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically nor any `WebResourceRequested` event handler will be called to load it.

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, choose one of the following approaches:
- Generate inline source maps during compilation of your content. Inline source maps are embedded to the corresponding compiled file.

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.

Reviewer: "inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your WebResourceRequested event handler"
Can we explain with an example here?

Rendered:
* **Using local content in WebView2 apps** > **Source maps with virtual host name mapping**
   * `/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md`
   * Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content?branch=pr-en-us-3384#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping
   * External preview: https://github.com/mikosg/edge-developer/blob/source_maps/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping

Reviewer: Outdated b/c I reformatted section.
Fresh link pending

> - Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your build system does not support inline source maps.
```
In orig comment, Akhila/ dhveerap asked if the word 'content' really needs to be included, or can omit it.

Reviewer: Outdated b/c i changed - to *
[Fresh](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files#r1964637927)

Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with virtual host name mapping

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, such as:
* Transpiled JavaScript, such as TypeScript or minified JavaScript.
* Compiled CSS, such as SASS or SCSS.

WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using virtual host name mapping.  

> Consider the following example. WebView2 loads JavaScript file `main.js` via virtual host name mapping.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically nor any `WebResourceRequested`<!-- todo: virtual host name mapping?  compare similar sections in this 4 and maybe 3 other files --> event handler will be called to load it.

Reviewer: reword from `WebResourceRequested` to virtual host name mapping

Reviewer: result (middle paragraph, shortened):
```
WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using virtual host name mapping.  

For example, suppose WebView2 loads `main.js` via virtual host name mapping.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, `main.js.map` will not be loaded automatically.

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, choose one of the following approaches:
```

To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, choose one of the following approaches:

* Generate inline source maps during compilation of your content. Inline source maps are embedded to the corresponding compiled file.

> * Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your build system does not support inline source maps.
```
In orig comment, Akhila @ dhveerap asked if the word 'content' really needs to be included, or can omit it.
Can we omit the word "content"?

Reviewer: omit 'content'

> * Use `WebResourceRequested` event instead, and inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.

Reviewer: "inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your WebResourceRequested event handler"
Can we explain with an example here?

_This is a fresh version of Outdated [comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files/a7be92ff869011a63417e5f47380407a284d213d#r1962826397) from Akhila._
 
Rendered:
* **Using local content in WebView2 apps** > **Source maps with virtual host name mapping**
   * `/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md`
   * Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content?branch=pr-en-us-3384#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping
   * External preview: https://github.com/mikosg/edge-developer/blob/source_maps/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md#source-maps-with-virtual-host-name-mapping

Reviewer 2: We can close this one as I believe it depends on the language of the requested resources and developers would know how to add source map to the file at runtime.

This can take some time. Make sure to limit calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### Source maps with WebResourceRequested event

Reviewer: check heading level, like next new section below

Reviewer: h6 here looks ok, in this article, instead of h2 like other article

> Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content like transpiled JavaScript (e.g. TypeScript, minified JavaScript) or CSS (e.g. SASS, SCSS). WebView2 does not load source maps referenced by content which was loaded using `WebResourceRequested` event. Consider the following example. You load JavaScript file `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting `WebResourceRequestedArgs.Response`. If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically nor your `WebResourceRequested` event handler will be called again to load it.

Reviewer 2: `WebResourceRequestedArgs.Response` - Is this supposed to be an exact API?

If so, in which platform/framework we add examples?

Reviewer: * **Using local content in WebView2 apps** > **Source maps with WebResourceRequested event**
   * `/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md`
   * Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content?branch=pr-en-us-3384#source-maps-with-webresourcerequested-event
   * External preview: https://github.com/mikosg/edge-developer/blob/source_maps/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md#source-maps-with-webresourcerequested-event
   * Planned live: https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content#source-maps-with-webresourcerequested-event
   * New section.

Reviewer: @dhveerap - i can look into 3 platforms API Ref links later, this section of the live article has links to 3 platforms Ref docs:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content?tabs=win32cpp#apis-for-loading-local-content-by-navigating-to-a-file-url

Reviewer: "WebResourceRequestedArgs.Response" Appears to be a typo, @dhveerap - real name of an API (.NET) contains **Event**:

CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.3065.39

Reviewer: @dhveerap i d/k which platform we add samples, but here is result w/ long full name of probably the correct type:  added 3rd link in each tab:

```
Consider the following example. You load JavaScript file `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting the `CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs.Response` property. ...

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs.Response Property](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs.response)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs.Response Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs#response)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs::get_Response](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs#get_response)
```

Reviewer: can't close comment yet b/c haven't answered:
> in which platform/framework we add examples?
If that question just means "add links to API Ref for 3 plats", can close this comment.

Reviewer: Outdated.  [Fresh](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3384/files#r1964643403)

> To use source maps along with virtual host name mapping, choose one of the following approaches:

Reviewer 2: `virtual host name mapping` -> `WebResourceRequested`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use source maps along with `WebResourceRequested`, choose one of the following approaches:
```

This can take some time. Make sure to limit calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with WebResourceRequested event

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content like transpiled JavaScript (e.g. TypeScript, minified JavaScript) or CSS (e.g. SASS, SCSS). WebView2 does not load source maps referenced by content which was loaded using `WebResourceRequested` event. Consider the following example. You load JavaScript file `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting `WebResourceRequestedArgs.Response`. If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically nor your `WebResourceRequested` event handler will be called again to load it.

To use source maps along with `WebResourceRequested`, choose one of the following approaches:
- Generate inline source maps during compilation of your content. Inline source maps are embedded to the corresponding compiled file.

> - Inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inlining source maps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inline separate source maps to the content at runtime in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler. Use this approach only if your content build system does not support inline source maps.
```
@dhveerap - i think/assume you also want this instance changed from inlining to inline.  if i'm interp'g your other comment right.

This can take some time. Make sure to limit calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with the `WebResourceRequested` event

> Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, including:
```

* Transpiled JavaScript, such as TypeScript or minified JavaScript.
* Compiled CSS, such as SASS or SCSS.

WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using the `WebResourceRequested` event.

> For example, suppose you load `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting the `Response` property of `CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs`.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map:

Reviewer: Win32 EventArgs has only a getter, not a setter.  Is this the wrong API, or is Win32 Ref docs missing ::set_Response?  .NET has getter/setter.

.NET:  get/set
https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs#properties

WinRT:  get/set
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs#response

Win32:  get, no set
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2webresourcerequestedeventargs#get_response

@dhveerap @mikosg

This can take some time. Make sure to limit calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Source maps with WebResourceRequested event

Source maps are needed to debug the source code of compiled content, such as:
* Transpiled JavaScript, such as TypeScript or minified JavaScript.
* Compiled CSS, such as SASS or SCSS.

WebView2 doesn't load source maps that are referenced by content which was loaded by using the `WebResourceRequested` event.

> Consider the following example. You load JavaScript file `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting the `CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs.Response` property.  If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically, nor will your `WebResourceRequested` event handler be called again to load it.

Reviewer: Changed to an actual API name, added .NET, WinRT, & Win32 links in tabset.  Can this comment be closed?  Not sure if this change answers your question:

> `WebResourceRequestedArgs.Response` - Is this supposed to be an exact API?
> If so, in which platform/framework we add examples?"

This comment can be closed if by "add examples" you mean add API Ref links for 3 platforms.
Can this comment be closed?  @dhveerap

Reviewer 2: ```Suggestion

Consider the following example. You load JavaScript file `main.js` in your `WebResourceRequested` event handler by setting the `response` property in event args. If `main.js` references `main.js.map` as its source map, then `main.js.map` will neither be loaded automatically, nor will your `WebResourceRequested` event handler be called again to load it.
```

Reviewer: result:
```
by setting the `Response` property in `CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs`.
```
